#  Remove a Cluster Node 
- **Read the procedure carefully before proceeding, as it may not be what you want or need.**

  
## 备份节点上的数据
1，Move all virtual machines from the node.   
   迁移节点上的所有的虚拟机   
2，Ensure that you have made copies of any local data or backups that you want to keep.   
  节点上的本地数据或者备份数据都要做拷贝  
3，In addition, make sure to remove any scheduled replication jobs to the node to be removed.  
   另外，节点的计划复制也要全部删除  

> Failure to remove replication jobs to a node before removing said node will result in the replication job becoming irremovable. Especially note that replication automatically switches direction if a replicated VM is migrated, so by migrating a replicated VM from a node to be deleted, replication jobs will be set up to that node automatically.

## 登录不同于要删除的节点


In the following example, we will remove the node hp4 from the cluster.

Log in to a different cluster node (not hp4), and issue a pvecm nodes command to identify the node ID to remove:
```
 hp1# pvecm nodes

Membership information
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
    Nodeid      Votes Name
         1          1 hp1 (local)
         2          1 hp2
         3          1 hp3
         4          1 hp4
```

## 关闭需要删除的节点电源
At this point, you must power off hp4 and ensure that it will not power on again (in the network) with its current configuration.
>As mentioned above, it is critical to power off the node before removal, and make sure that it will not power on again (in the existing cluster network) with its current configuration. If you power on the node as it is, the cluster could end up broken, and it could be difficult to restore it to a functioning state.

## 从集群中删除节点
After powering off the node hp4, we can safely remove it from the cluster.
```
hp1# pvecm delnode hp4
    Killing node 4
```
>At this point, it is possible that you will receive an error message stating Could not kill node (error = CS_ERR_NOT_EXIST). This does not signify an actual failure in the deletion of the node, but rather a failure in corosync trying to kill an offline node. Thus, it can be safely ignored.
>
# 查看删除后的结果
Use pvecm nodes or pvecm status to check the node list again. It should look something like:
```
 pvecm nodes
 pvecm status
```

# 删除后重新加入
- 无论如何，请再建一个全新的pve主机，安装前面的方法，重新加入。

If, for whatever reason, you want this server to join the same cluster again, you have to:

    do a fresh install of Proxmox VE on it,

    then join it, as explained in the previous section.

The configuration files for the removed node will still reside in /etc/pve/nodes/hp4. 
Recover any configuration you still need and remove the directory afterwards.
